Hey, everyone.
Welcome back to Boost Your Income
with Bootstrap to WordPress.
This lecture is called
Recommended Tools for Sketching and
Wireframing Your Website.
[MUSIC]
So there are a few tools out there that
can help you in terms of sketching or
wireframing.
You could go the pen and paper route,
and you can go the digital route.
All you really need is just a piece of
paper and a pen or a pencil, but that's
not necessarily the most professional or
inspirational way of wireframing.
If you just handed a piece of loose
leaf paper, or napkin to your client
with crayon, or just a Sharpie on it,
it might not be so professional.
And you might not be able to
convey your ideas very well.
But if you presented a really nice
notebook with some really beautiful
sketches, that's much more professional.
And it's more inspiring to work with,
it's more creative.
Even further,
if you wanted to have a digital
software where you can
create wireframes quickly,
and its a software specifically
designed for wireframing, you could
create really nice looking wire-frames
that are actually fun to create.
So let me show you
a couple of the options.
If you like the idea of creating a
wireframe with just a pen and a notebook,
then I suggest checking out Gridbooks,
which is bradhussey.ca/gridbooks.
Keep in mind, that's my affiliate link,
and if you do decide to purchase
a Gridbook with that link,
I'll get a small commission.
If you don't want to go that route,
totally fine,
you could just go to the gridbooks.com
website and bypass that altogether.
Gridbooks is basically the best way to
visualize and sketch digital ideas.
And they're beautiful, handmade
notebooks designed and crafted here
in Calgary, Alberta,
Canada where I'm currently residing.
I actually worked with these guys,
Sajack & Farki,
the digital agency who creates Gridbooks.
I was their front-end
developer at one point, and
I got to work with them on
the Gridbooks website and everything.
We use Gridbooks everyday, and
I still use Gridbooks all the time
when I'm framing my websites.
I even use them just for note-taking.
They have a series of
different types of books.
They have the web books,
mobile books, banner books.
You can buy bundles, and
they're truly beautiful.
So for example, if you're just looking for
like a web grid and you want to wireframe
websites, the web books or
web pads are good options for you.
You can go to the website,
you can go to the products, you could
check them out, they're gorgeous.
They're fun to draw with,
and take notes, and sketch.
They're specifically designed for
wireframing.
They use a 960 grid, so
you can actually sketch grids
with the dot grid that is
printed on the paper itself.
It's not just a piece of paper just for
taking notes,
it's specifically for
web designers working with grids.
That's what's so great about Gridbooks.
That's what sets them apart from, say, a
Moleskine, or just a traditional grid pad.
This is specifically meant for
websites, mobile websites.
You could see here, they have mobile
grids, specifically designed for
wireframing and sketching for
iPhones, and
digital kind of handheld devices.
They even have banner grids if you're
doing banner ads and things like that.
So I recommend Gridbooks.
I have a handful of Gridbooks
with me that I use all the time.
The other option is if you
wanted to go the digital route.
And I love this route as well.
In fact, I use both the pen and
paper route, and the digital route.
I like to start with paper, and
then bring it to the computer.
I suggest checking out OmniGraffle.
If you go to bradhussey.ca/omnigraffle,
that'll take you to
the OmniGraffle app in iTunes.
Keep in mind, this is for a Mac.
OmniGraffle is basically a whole
software that is designed for
page layouts, process charts,
wireframings, graphic design, diagrams.
You could do a whole bunch
of stuff with it, but
I specifically use it for wireframing.
So here, I have OmniGraffle and
I've already created just a little
wireframe just to show you.
So here's OmniGraffle,
I have a title page here.
I got a little site map, you can see
our website is gonna have a Home, Blog,
Resources, and Contact page.
You could see subpages within each page.
Here's a homepage
wireframe that I created.
So you could see here I've got the page,
got some details over here with some notes
that would be good to show to the client,
or something like that.
You could see our navigation bar, big hero
graphic with some pricing details and
a big button.
An opt-in box, and
then just some sections so
you can see where,
how the page is gonna be laid out.
Continues on here, you could see
just some simple boxes and lines,
just kind of detailing what
the homepage will include.
And it takes us all the way
down here to the footer.
And so basically, that's just
a simple wireframe using OmniGraffle.
So I like both, I like using both
Gridbooks and OmniGraffle in tandem,
so if you're looking to take it
a little bit more seriously,
I totally suggest checking out Gridbooks,
they ship worldwide.
And OmniGraffle, if you're using a Mac,
which is also awesome.
You can also just use piece of paper,
or you can use Photoshop,
if you have Photoshop as well.
So those are two super useful tools
when it comes to wireframing.
So in the next lecture, we're going
to actually jump into the project.
We're going to get started, and
kind of get our hands dirty.
We're gonna download
the Bootstrap framework, and
we're going to get our
project environment set up.
So see you there.
[MUSIC]